Post: redirecting `/` to `README.html` deprecation (#287)
readthedocs/website: content/posts/readme-html-deprecated.md

* **Monday, May 27, 2024**: Email project owners using this deprecated feature so they can take action.
* **Monday, June 10, 2024**: Do the first brownout (temporarily enforce this deprecation) for 12 hours: 00:01 PST to 11:59 PST (noon)
* **Monday, June 17, 2024**: Do a second brownout (temporarily enforce this deprecation) for 24 hours: 00:01 PST to 23:59 PST (midnight)
* **Monday, June 24, 2024**: Do a third and final brownout (temporarily enforce this deprecation) for 48 hours: 00:01 PST to 23:59 PST (midnight)
* **Monday, July 1, 2024**: Fully remove support for building documentation without configuration file v2.

We strongly recommend to update your projects before July 1st, 2024 to avoid any downtime.

### How to update your project

There are different approaches that can be followed depending on the configuration of your project.

1. Migrate your Sphinx documentation to use `master_doc = "index"` instead of `master_doc = "README"`.
   This can be done by re-structuring your documentation or by creating a symlink from of `index.rst -> README.rst`.

> 2. Rename the `README.html` as `index.html` once the build has finished using [`build.jobs.post_build`](https://docs.readthedocs.io/en/stable/config-file/v2.html#build-jobs)

Author: He, I wrote those in the original version of this post, but then I realized it doesn't work because we force them to have an `index.html` at build time, so those builds will fail if they don't have an index.

> title: Stop redirecting root documentation URL to "README.html"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Deprecation: Removal of redirect for root documentation URL to "README.html"
```

date: 2024-05-27
category: Changelog
tags: hosting, deprecation
authors: Manuel Kaufmann
status: published
image: /images/readme-html-deprecated.jpg
image_credit: Photo by <a href="https://unsplash.com/@introspectivedsgn?utm_content=creditCopyText&utm_medium=referral&utm_source=unsplash">Erik Mclean</a> on <a href="https://unsplash.com/photos/black-asus-laptop-computer-showing-3-00-sxiSod0tyYQ?utm_content=creditCopyText&utm_medium=referral&utm_source=unsplash">Unsplash</a>

> We are announcing the **deprecation of redirecting root URLs (`/`) to `/README.html`**

Reviewer: Is this what we're doing? I thought we were serving `README.html` as the index at `/`?

Author: Actually, it seems that it redirects all the index URLs (?), not just root. See santos' comment in https://github.com/readthedocs/readthedocs.org/pull/11348#discussion_r1612041026

Reviewer 2: yep, this applies to all index pages.

Author: Do you have a suggestion for a better wording here?

Reviewer 2: just use `index` instead of `root` :thinking:

for all the projects that don't output an `index.html` file when building the documentation.
The deprecation date is set on **Monday, July 1st, 2024**.
After this date, projects not outputting an `index.html` file will [fail their builds](https://blog.readthedocs.com/builds-without-index/).

### Deprecation timeline

We understand this change will affect a few hundred of projects, so we have a timeline to communicate this deprecation to our users effectively.

> * **Monday, May 27, 2024**: Email project owners using this deprecated feature so they can take action.

Reviewer: This is a US holiday, btw. Might aim for Tuesday?

Author: Sounds good 👍🏼
